docs: networking (#15358)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/networking/cni.mdx

          { "dst": "0.0.0.0/0" }
        ]
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "firewall",
      "backend": "iptables",
      "iptablesAdminChainName": "NOMAD-ADMIN"
    },
    {
      "type": "portmap",
      "capabilities": {"portMappings": true},
      "snat": true
    }
  ]
}
```

{/* Source: https://www.figma.com/file/Ne2qaPUlBTmTYer9biCfK9/Networking?node-id=0%3A1&t=BepgOoQ0kb76GwIr-1 */}
[![Visual example of Nomad bridge network](/img/nomad-bridge-network.png)](/img/nomad-bridge-network.png)

For a more thorough understanding of this configuration, consider each CNI
plugin's configuration in turn.

### loopback

The `loopback` plugin sets the default local interface, lo0, created inside
the bridge network's network namespace to **UP**. This allows workload running
inside the namespace to bind to a namespace-specific loopback interface.

### bridge

The `bridge` plugin creates a bridge (virtual switch) named `nomad` that resides
in the host network namespace. Because this bridge is intended to provide
network connectivity to allocations, it's configured to be a gateway by setting
`isGateway` to `true`. This tells the plugin to assign an IP address to the
bridge interface

> The bridge plugin connects allocations (on the same host) into a bridge (virtual

Author: Good point, I added this clarification here and in https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/pull/15358/files#diff-26fb23e7998b097aa61b2edb406f5e2531b8b7e04f29ec4787feb268391a3382R92

switch) that resides in the host network namespace. Since Nomad's bridge network
is designed to provide network connectivity to the allocations, it configures
the bridge interface to be a gateway for outgoing traffic by providing it with
an address using an `ipam` configuration. The default configuration creates a
host-local address for the host side of the bridge in the `172.26.64.0/20`
subnet at `172.26.64.1`. When associating allocations to the bridge, it creates
addresses for the allocations from that same subnet using the host-local plugin.
The configuration also specifies a default route for the allocations of the
host-side bridge address.

### firewall

The firewall plugin creates firewall rules to allow traffic to/from the
allocation's IP address via the host network. Nomad uses the iptables backend
for the firewall plugin. This configuration creates two new iptables chains,

> CNI-FORWARD and NOMAD-ADMIN, in the filter table and add rules that allow the

Author: I made an executive decision to have backticks everywhere 😄

---
layout: docs
page_title: CNI
description: |-
  Learn about Nomad's runtime environment variables, interpolation, caveats,
  and more.
---

# Container Network Interface (CNI)

Nomad has built-in support for scheduling compute resources such as
CPU, memory, and networking. Nomad's network plugin support extends
this to allow scheduling tasks with purpose-created or specialty network
configurations. Network plugins are third-party plugins that conform to the
[Container Network Interface (CNI)][cni_spec] specification.

Network plugins need to be installed and configured on each client. The [Nomad
installation instructions][nomad_install] recommend installing the [CNI
reference plugins][cni_ref] because certain Nomad networking features, like
`bridge` network mode and Consul service mesh, leverage them to provide an
operating-system agnostic interface to configure workload networking.

Custom networking in Nomad is accomplished with a combination of CNI plugin
binaries and CNI configuration files.

## CNI plugins

> Spec-compliant plugins should work with Nomad. However, it's possible a plugin

Reviewer: feel free to ignore, but I was always told not to start sentence with however
```suggestion
Spec-compliant plugins should work with Nomad, however, it's possible a plugin
```

vendor has implemented their plugin to make non-standard API calls, or it is
otherwise non-compliant with the CNI specification. In those situations the
plugin may not function correctly in a Nomad environment. You should verify
plugin compatibility with Nomad before deploying in production.

CNI plugins are installed and configured on a per-client basis. Nomad consults
the path given in the client's [`cni_path`][] to find CNI plugin executables.

## CNI configuration files

The CNI specification defines a network configuration format for administrators.
It contains directives for both the orchestrator and the plugins to consume.

> At plugin execution time, this configuration format is interpreted by the
> runtime and transformed in to a form to be passed to the plugins.

Reviewer 2: "The runtime" is ambiguous here. I'd probably do something like:

```suggestion
At plugin execution time, this configuration format is interpreted by Nomad
and transformed into arguments for the plugins.
```

Nomad reads all files with a `.conflist` extension in the [`cni_config_dir`][]—

> `/opt/cni/config` by default.

Reviewer: It would be nice to update this based on the detail included within https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/issues/15279 to avoid future confusion with users.

## Using CNI networks with Nomad jobs

To specify that a job should use a CNI network, set the task group's

> network's [`mode`][] attribute to the value `cni/<your_cni_config_name>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
network [`mode`][] attribute to the value `cni/<your_cni_config_name>`.
```
